# 129 Interview Topics

## Resources

- [Object-Oriented Programming with Ruby](https://launchschool.com/books/oo_ruby/read/introduction)
  - The Object Model DONE
  - **Classes and Objects**
  - Modules and Inheritance DONE
- [129 Written Assessment](https://launchschool.com/exams/b1c818cc)
- [Modules](https://launchschool.com/lessons/dfff5f6b/assignments/2cf31cc8)
- [Pete's Post](https://launchschool.com/posts/c279b82b#comment-63876)

## Topics

- **polymorphism**
  - polymorphism is the provision of a single interfaces for entities of
    different types
  - ad hoc polymorphism (two classes that have a method of the same name)
  - mixin modules (two classes that include behaviour of module)
  - inheritance (two classes that inherit interface of superclass)
  - polymorphism with or without method overriding
- **self**
  - self evaluates to current default object (object receiving current message)
  - use case: self as a prefix in class method definitions (i.e., self within)
    class scope
  - self in top-level scope, in t-l methods and t-l-contained blocks: `main`
  - self within instance methods: the receiver (object on which method called)
  - self within class methods: the class object
  - use case: self as a return value (returning the current default object)
  - use case: to "disambiguate"
    - self when invoking class methods from instance methods (`class` keyword)
    - self when calling setters (local variables)
- **method lookup path**
  - first, look in the class of which object is an instance
  - second, look in included modules in reverse order
    (module last included comes first)
  - third, look in superclass, repeating steps 1 to 3
- **class inheritance**
  - a relationship between classes
  - behaviour is inherited, not state
  - inheriting behaviour: can use it out of the box!
  - overriding inherited behaviour: more detailed, or different implementation
  - super: overriding inherited behaviour while using it
  - link to method lookup chain (traces it)
- **single inheritance** (see assessment answer)
  - single inheritance: every class inherits from one other class
  - limitation: trying to model several hierarchies at once
  - solution: modules
- **attributes and inheritance**
  - inheritance: on the level of behaviour! not ivars!
  - inheritance: a relationship between classes, not between instances!
  - attribute: ivar with value that is gettable/settable
    - the getters/setters are inherited, but not the ivars and their values!  
  - state: totality of ivars with values of an object – not inherited!
- **classes vs modules**
  - modules have no instances
  - can include any number of modules
  - modules typically for "has-a" relationship (or "adjectives")
- **module use cases**
  - mixins
    - module contains *instance methods*
    - include in class, call like other instance methods
  - namespacing
    - module contains *classes*
    - call with `TheModule::TheClass`
  - container
    - module contains *module methods*  ,
    - typically called with `TheModule.the_method`
- **method access**
  - public methods are said to comprise the class's interface
  - private and protected methods contain implementation details
  - private methods:
    - can only be called without explicit receiver
    - thus can only be called where self evaluates to instance of class
  - protected methods:
    - from outside the class, are like private methods (cannot be called)
    - when self evaluates to instance of class, can be called with explicit
      receiver
- **accidental method overriding**
  - every class (that is not explicitly made to be child of another class) is a
    child of the `Object` class. this entails that every class has access to Object (and Kernel) methods.
  - every class can override behaviour of superclasses. modules that are
    included can also "override" behaviour defined in
    superclasses.
  - there is a lot of potential for overriding methods accidentally that were
    defined higher up in the inheritance hierarchy! (example: `send` method)
- **instance variables and instance methods**
  - instance methods defined in a class constitute the behaviour of instances
    of the class. they are available to be called (explicitly or implicitly) on (all and only the) instances of the class.

## More Topics

- instance variables and instance methods
- encapsulation
- class variables and class methods
- instance variables in included modules (robert's example)

----

What's going on here? Are there private class methods?


class Human

  def self.class_adress
    self.adress
  end

  def full_adress
    adress + ' Czech Republic'
  end

  def equal_age(other_person)
    has_the_same_age(other_person)
  end

  private

  def self.adress
    'Prague'
  end

  def has_the_same_age(other)
    age == other.age
  end

  protected

  def age
    30
  end
end
